## Variant Calling

Variant naming is the recognition of genetic differences between
individuals of the same species (germline) or tissue differences in a
single (somatic) organism.

First move is to use the wget command from the path specified in the
module to get the reference genome by using -c, output by-O and we need
to gunzip the script. The second step is to re-read the NGS by using the
fastqdump command of the SRA toolkit and to splitfiles so that we get
the two SRA files under SRR6808334 1.fastq and SRR6808334 2.fastq
accession. Third step is to trim the reads that we will trim the reads
using the trimmomatic in to paired and unpaired java system with two
files that are paired and two unpaired resulting in a total of four
data. We’ll also construct log files, and err files. Fourth step is to
index the genome for the reference file using the Bwa index BWA is a
software package for mapping DNA sequences against a large reference
genome, like the human genome. It consists of three algorithms:
BWA-backtrack, BWA-SW and BWA-MEM and we obtain outfiles such
as.sa,.amb,.amb,.pac,.bwt which are used to test the alignments and also
samtool faidx which index the files and generate an output of.fai file
indexing the fasta format reference sequences. Fifth stage is to align
the reads using Bwa mem reads, this method aligns the single end reads
or paired end reads to a chosen reference genome using BWA MEM Algorithm
which reads to be distributed in the fastq format from which we can
obtain the.sam file performance. Sixth step is Sorting the file
generated by bwa mem to a sorted bam by using samtools sort to get a
sorted type of sam file that is the compressed binary version of sam
named the.sorted.bam file. This is also done by using the samtools
index, which indexes the.sorted.bam file as the input and generates
the.sorted.bam.bai file as the output by indexing the reads as the
output The last step is the Produce a VCF file using DeepVariant
DeepVariant is an analysis pipeline that uses a deep neural network to
call genetic variants from next-generation DNA sequencing data.
DeepVariant relies on Nucleus, a library of Python and C++ code for
reading and writing data in common genomics file formats (like SAM and
VCF) designed for painless integration with the TensorFlow machine
learning framework. \#\#References

<div id="refs" class="references">

<div id="ref-Bolger2014">

Bolger, Anthony M., Marc Lohse, and Bjoern Usadel. 2014. “Trimmomatic: A
Flexible Trimmer for Illumina Sequence Data.” *Bioinformatics (Oxford,
England)* 30 (15): 2114–20.
<https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/btu170>.

</div>

<div id="ref-Li2010">

Li, Heng, and Richard Durbin. 2010. “Fast and Accurate Long-Read
Alignment with Burrows-Wheeler Transform.” *Bioinformatics (Oxford,
England)* 26 (5): 589–95.
<https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/btp698>.

</div>

<div id="ref-McKenna2010">

McKenna, Aaron, Matthew Hanna, Eric Banks, Andrey Sivachenko, Kristian
Cibulskis, Andrew Kernytsky, Kiran Garimella, et al. 2010. “The Genome
Analysis Toolkit: A MapReduce Framework for Analyzing Next-Generation
DNA Sequencing Data.” *Genome Research* 20 (9): 1297–1303.
<https://doi.org/10.1101/gr.107524.110>.

</div>

<div id="ref-Poplin2018">

Poplin, Ryan, Pi-Chuan Chang, David Alexander, Scott Schwartz, Thomas
Colthurst, Alexander Ku, Dan Newburger, et al. 2018. “A Universal SNP
and Small-Indel Variant Caller Using Deep Neural Networks.” *Nature
Biotechnology* 36 (10): 983–87. <https://doi.org/10.1038/nbt.4235>.

</div>

</div>
